---
title: "A BI dashboard"
excerpt: "Built a BI dashboard for an UK startup"
permalink: "/portfolio/bounce/"
date: '2018-09-01'
header:
  teaser: /assets/images/portfolio/bounce/logo.png
sidebar:
  - title: "Role"
    image: /assets/images/portfolio/bounce/logo.png
    image_alt: "logo"
    text: "Full Stack Developer"
  - title: "Technology used"
    text: "Python, Flask, jQuery, chart.js, HTML5, and CSS3"
---

I worked at [Bounce Technologies](https://bouncebot.io/) as a Full Stack Developer for eight weeks. Bounce is a mental health company. Through its chatbot allows you to boost your optimism and makes you feel better every day with the power of positive psychology.

Bounce has been operating for 18 months, but they never had the chance to exploit their data. So they hired me because the highest priority was to build a BI dashboard, essential for operating their business.

The architecture of the dashboard has two main components: backend and frontend.
For the first layer of the backend, I used Flask, which is a Python framework. It allowed me to expose some APIs to the frontend. For a much cleaner code, I divided the backend into two separated scripts. The first one defines all the API endpoints and returns the data generated by functions defined in the second script. The second script is the core of the backend. This script implements the logic that gets the data from the APIs. Here I used Python libraries, such as Pandas, Numpy and Requests, to communicate with the Bounce API.
For the frontend, I used HTML, CSS and jQuery and chart.js.
My workflow was pretty easy. First of all, talking with the founders and my mentor to understand what insights the company needed the most. Second of all, using a Jupyter Notebook as a playground, I reshaped or extracted the data in the most useful form. When I had the result that I was expecting, I could finally refactor the code into the backend logic script.

## Features
* The dashboard has a total of 10 charts
* Daily new users over the past 30 days
* Daily active users over the past 30 days
* Monthly active users over the past 3 Months
* The history of the average stickiness
* The stickiness distribution
* Hourly distribution of exercises
* The N-Day retention curve
* Retention analysis (estimate the app’s usage interval)
* Retention lifecycle (new, active, churned and resurrected users)
* Exercise distribution
* Here some of the most significant screenshots of the dashboard

The project is closed source, and at the moment I'm not allowed to share any screenshots.



